Documentation page Platformio tools and its using with luos_engine (#442)
Luos-io/Documentation: docs/tools/platformio.mdx

Learn more about <a href="https://platformio.org" target="_blank">PlatformIO and how to install it in VSCode <IconExternalLink width="10" /></a>.

## PlatformIO's project structure

Every PlatformIO's project has a <a href="https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/projectconf/section_platformio.html#directory-options" target="_blank">basic folder project structure<IconExternalLink width="10"/></a> and must have at the root of the project the file <a href="https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/projectconf/section_platformio.html#generic-options" target="_blank">_platformio.ini_ <IconExternalLink width="10" /></a>.

Checkout the Luos tutorial on <a href="https://www.luos.io/tutorials/pio" target="_blank">how to create a Luos project with PlatformIO <IconExternalLink width="10" /></a>.

## Luos configuration for _platformio.ini_

Some build flags definition may be used to configure Luos engine when it is added in your project. Those definitions will take care of the Luos engine library by using a Luos script called when building a project with Luos engine. Those definitions must be set in _platformio.ini_.

> For more information, see the script _source_filter_script.py_ in <a href="https://github.com/Luos-io/luos_engine" target="_blank" rel="external nofollow">Luos engine <IconExternalLink width="10" /></a>.

Reviewer: You should add a link to the script the same way this is done on gate and pipe.

Author: don't understand what you means?

### Definition for Luos engine Library

| Definition  |                                            Description |                                                                           Value                                                                            |
| :---------: | -----------------------------------------------------: | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------: |

> |   LUOSHAL   | Defines the HAL family to use with Luos engine library | <a href="https://github.com/Luos-io/luos_engine/tree/main/engine/HAL" target="_blank" rel="external nofollow"> Luos HAL <IconExternalLink width="10" /></a> |

Reviewer: In my pont of view we still need examples for each lines. This is usefull because `NOTELEMETRY` usage is not obvious otherwise.

Author: dont understand you comment there is an explaination and an example under

By default, the telemetry is enabled and send anonymous information to Luos (only for improving Luos engine experience). To disable it, place the flag NOTELEMETRY in platformio.ini the same way that the LUOSHAL flag.

build_flags =
    -include node_config.h
    -DLUOSHAL=STM32F0
    -DNOTELEMETRY
    -O1

don't know how to be clearer!

Reviewer: You give some additional explanation later on the document, my point is to put this explanation on the table instead of somewhere on the document.

|     NOTELEMETRY       |                 Disables telemetry                 |     On by default     |

Every Luos project needs to have a *node_config.h* file allowing to configure Luos engine's hardware dependencies and configure the library. See the [basics concept page](/docs/luos-technology/basics/orga) for more information.

Here is a *platformio.ini* project example:
```AsciiDoc
[env:nucleo_f072rb]
platform = ststm32
board = nucleo_f072rb
framework = stm32cube

build_unflags = -Os
build_flags =
    -include node_config.h
    -DLUOSHAL=STM32F0
    -O1
lib_deps =
    luos_engine
```

> This project in the examples is Luos engine-dependent. PlatformIO will download the last version of the library Luos engine from its registry. The file *node_config.h* allowing users to configure Luos parameters and the hardware definition to be added to the project.

Author: I think the "-" is wrong place

> This project in the examples is Luos engine-dependent. PlatformIO will download the last version of the library Luos engine from its registry. The file *node_config.h* allowing users to configure Luos parameters and the hardware definition to be added to the project.

Reviewer 2: It wasn't, but the solution of @K0rdan works if you don't put the "_"

> This project in the examples is Luos engine dependent. PlatformIO will download the last version of the library Luos engine from its registry. The file _node_config.h_ allowing users to configure Luos parameters and the hardware definition to be added to the project.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because this example is Luos engine dependent, PlatformIO will download the last version of the Luos engine library from its registry.
Here is the result of a good configuration of Luos engine during compilation:

```

Author: done

<div align="center">

>   <Image src="/img/telemetry.png" darkSrc="/img/telemetry.png" />

Reviewer: This picture is not good. There is typo mistakes and sentences that doesn't add any value.
In the first square I would write `Feedback from Luos engine compilation script.`
on the second sentence : `Telemetry send anonymous information to Luos maintainer allowing to them to improve developer experience.`

Author: done

</div>

> You must define the <a href="https://github.com/Luos-io/luos_engine/tree/main/engine/HAL" target="_blank" rel="external nofollow">HAL family <IconExternalLink width="10" /></a> corresponding to your MCU. See the [compatibility page](/docs/compatibility/mcu_demoboard) to find the HAL family you must use for your MCU. During the build, a message appearing in red means a problem has occurred. It happens if you forget a build flag in your the file _platformio.ini_.

Reviewer: We talked about the HAL thing previously, we should keep it together and avoid dispatching information on the entire document.

Author: place above

<div align="center">

>   <Image src="/img/telemetry-1.png" darkSrc="/img/telemetry-1.png" />

Reviewer: I don't think this image is worth it. I think any developers know that red is error and error description is pretty obvious.

Author: picture rmv

</div>

> By default, the telemetry is enabled and send anonymous information to Luos (only for improving Luos engine experience). To disable it, place the flag `NOTELEMETRY` in _platformio.ini_ the same way that the `LUOSHAL` flag.

Reviewer: Same telemetry thing was explained at the beginning of this page group it.

Author: placed above

```AsciiDoc
...

build_flags =
    -include node_config.h
    -DLUOSHAL=STM32F0
    -DNOTELEMETRY
    -O1

...
```

> ### Definition for the tools gate and pipe

Reviewer: This part is better than the first one. More simple.
You should keep this format for the first one or make a first section about the general concept then make tables for every lib having a script.

Author: simpler for me because may concept and the way to understand this part is described above

> Some pre-compiled definitions may be used to configure Luos tools when they are added in your project.

Reviewer: This is not pre-compiled definitions. They are configuration definitions used by a script before pre-compilation.

Author: done

> For more information, see the script *select_format_script.py* in the <a href="https://github.com/Luos-io/luos_engine/tree/main/tool_services/gate" target="_blank" rel="external nofollow">gate tool <IconExternalLink width="10"></IconExternalLink></a> and *select_hal_script.py* in <a href="https://github.com/Luos-io/luos_engine/tree/main/tool_services/pipe" target="_blank" rel="external nofollow">pipe tool <IconExternalLink width="10"></IconExternalLink></a>.

Reviewer 2: @K0rdan, `<IconExternalLink width="10" />` has the only effect of display kind of a carriage return. How can we solve that?

> For more information, see the script *select_format_script.py* in the <a href="https://github.com/Luos-io/luos_engine/tree/main/tool_services/gate" target="_blank" rel="external nofollow">gate tool <IconExternalLink width="10"></IconExternalLink></a> and *select_hal_script.py* in <a href="https://github.com/Luos-io/luos_engine/tree/main/tool_services/pipe" target="_blank" rel="external nofollow">pipe tool <IconExternalLink width="10"></IconExternalLink></a>.

Reviewer 2: Nevermind, I resolved it by adding `import IconExternalLink from "@theme/IconExternalLink";` at the beginning of the file

|      Definition       |                          Description                        |         Value         |
| :-------------------: |-----------------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------: |

> |      GATEFORMAT       | Chooses the format of data sent by the gate through a pipe. | <a href="https://github.com/Luos-io/luos_engine/tree/main/tool_services/gate" target="_blank" rel="external nofollow">Gate message format <IconExternalLink width="10"></IconExternalLink></a> file.

Author: That was changed on Nico demand to a link to the repo to be future proof

learn more about <a href="https://platformio.org" target="_blank">PlatformIO and how to install PlatformIO<IconExternalLink width="10"></IconExternalLink></a>.

## PlatformIO project structure

Every PlatformIO project have a <a href="https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/projectconf/section_platformio.html#directory-options" target="_blank">basic folder project structure<IconExternalLink width="10"></IconExternalLink></a> and must have at the root of the project a <a href="https://docs.platformio.org/en/latest/projectconf/section_platformio.html#generic-options" target="_blank">platformio.ini<IconExternalLink width="10"></IconExternalLink></a> file

Checkout luos tutorial on <a href="https://www.luos.io/tutorials/pio" target="_blank">how create a Luos project with PlatformIo <IconExternalLink width="10"></IconExternalLink></a>.

## Luos configuration for 'Platformio.ini'

> Some pre-compile definition may be use to configure Luos engine when its add in your project. those definition will be taking care of for Luos engine library using Luos script call at building a project with Luos engine.

Reviewer: Those are not pre-compilation defnition, their are build flags definitions.

Reviewer: You have to say that those definition have to be set on `platformio.ini` and give a typical example of it.

Author: Change done

For more information, see the script source_filter_script.py in <a href="https://github.com/Luos-io/luos_engine" target="_blank" rel="external nofollow"> Luos engine <IconExternalLink width="10"></IconExternalLink> </a>.

### Definition for Luos engine Library

|      Definition       |                    Description                    |         Value         |
| :-------------------: |-------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------: |

> |       LUOSHAL         | Define HAL family to use with Luos engine library |   see Luos engine HAL |

Reviewer: Here in value you should explain what value are possible. Possible values are HAL folders name.

Author: Done for every value

> |     NOTELEMETRY       |                 Disable Telemetry                 |     On by default     |

Reviewer: Add an example such as `-D LUOSHAL=ESP32` and `-D NOTELEMETRY`

Author: done

> Platformio.ini project example:

Reviewer: You should explain the node_config.h thing before giving the example.
Also you should redirect to the documentation page related to Luos project organization.

Author: done

```AsciiDoc
[env:nucleo_f072rb]
platform = ststm32
board = nucleo_f072rb
framework = stm32cube

build_unflags = -Os
build_flags =
    -include node_config.h

>     -O1

Reviewer: the `-D LUOSHAL` is missing here.

Reviewer: After reading the next steps, this is not a tutorial, so you don't have to make intermediate steps.
Just explain what they have to do, give an example and show a good compilation prompt.
then add a small insert about `if you fail a config lines will be red...`

Author: done

lib_deps =
    luos_engine
```

Building project exemple:
<div align="center">
  <Image src="/img/telemetry.svg" darkSrc="/img/telemetry.svg" />
</div>

By default the telemetry is enable and send anonymous information to luos (only for Luos engine experience improving). To disable place the flag NOTELEMETRY in 'Platformio.ini' the same way as LUOSHAL Flag

###  Definition for gate tool and pipe

The same way for tools, some pre-compile definition may be use to configure Luos tools when these add in your project.
For more information, see the script select_format_script.py in <a href="https://github.com/Luos-io/luos_engine/tree/main/tool_services/gate" target="_blank" rel="external nofollow"> gate tool <IconExternalLink width="10"></IconExternalLink> </a> and select_hal_script.py in <a href="https://github.com/Luos-io/luos_engine/tree/main/tool_services/pipe" target="_blank" rel="external nofollow"> pipe <IconExternalLink width="10"></IconExternalLink> </a>

|      Definition       |                          Description                        |         Value         |
| :-------------------: |-----------------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------: |

> |      GATEFORMAT       | Chose the format of data send by the gate to through a pipe |       TinyJson        |

Reviewer: To be future proof values are folders name too.
an example such as `-D GATEFORMAT=TinyJSON` is welcome too.

Author: done

|      Definition       |                                      Description                                   |         Value         |
| :-------------------: |----------------------------------------------------------------------------------: | :-------------------: |
|       PIPEMODE        | Choose Pipe style to send or receive information through a specific physical Layer |    SERIAL/WIFI/BLE    |
|       PIPEHAL         |             Choose Pipe HAL match a specific physical Layer with the board         |      see pipe HAL     |

> 

Reviewer: Same for values explain the folder thing, and add example.

Author: done
